Intermediate continuous integration material (#99)
merely-useful/merely-useful.github.io: rse-ci.Rmd

with [Github][github], and will run tests on multiple platforms and with
multiple versions of tools. At a minimum, Travis will build the software. If
you want to confirm that your software works as intended, you should create tests
as detailed in Chapter \@ref(unit-tests). If tests exist, Travis will run them
and print the results for you to check. Remember, the tests that the CI runs are
only as good as you've written them.

TODO: Confirm unit test chapter ref.

So why should you use CI? There are several reasons:

1. CI will construct a clean, separate computing environment before building and
testing your software. That gives you a better idea on whether potential users
of your software can actually use it. Often your software will build and work on
*your* computer, but not others' computers because of differences in software
versions, operating systems, and other potential dependency conflicts. So part of
good practice for creating software is to confirm that it works at least on a clean
environment.
2. CI will help you catch problems or bugs sooner, which should reduce your stress
and frustration compared to if you have to hunt for a bug later in the software
development.

> 3. CI is particularly useful when working on a project with others, as bugs that arise from someone else's code contribution can be harder for you to resolve so preventing them from being merged in the first place is even more time saving than when working alone. By encouraging frequent well-teseted merges, continuous integration also alleviates the problems that can occur when multiple people wait to integrate their work until just before a big milestone and then want to merge many big changes all at once.

Author: ```suggestion
3. CI is particularly useful when working on a project with others, as bugs that arise from someone else's code contribution can be harder for you to resolve. Preventing them from being merged in the first place saves time. By encouraging frequent well-tested merges, CI also reduces the problems that can occur when multiple people wait to integrate their work right before a big milestone and then want to merge in many big changes all at once.
```

with [Github][github], and will run tests on multiple platforms and with
multiple versions of tools. At a minimum, Travis will build the software. If
you want to confirm that your software works as intended, you should create tests
as detailed in Chapter \@ref(unit-tests). If tests exist, Travis will run them
and print the results for you to check. Remember, the tests that the CI runs are
only as good as you've written them.

TODO: Confirm unit test chapter ref.

So why should you use CI? There are several reasons:

1. CI will construct a clean, separate computing environment before building and
testing your software. That gives you a better idea on whether potential users
of your software can actually use it. Often your software will build and work on
*your* computer, but not others' computers because of differences in software
versions, operating systems, and other potential dependency conflicts. So part of
good practice for creating software is to confirm that it works at least on a clean
environment.
2. CI will help you catch problems or bugs sooner, which should reduce your stress
and frustration compared to if you have to hunt for a bug later in the software
development.

> 3. CI is great when working on a project with others, as it can help reduce bugs

Reviewer: Something like this for clarification?

```suggestion
3. CI is particularly useful when working on a project with others, as bugs that arise from someone else's code contribution can be harder for you to resolve so preventing them from being merged in the first place is even more time saving than when working alone. By encouraging frequent well-teseted merges, continuous integration also alleviates the problems that can occur when multiple people wait to integrate their work until just before a big milestone and then want to merge many big changes all at once.
```

> introduced by other people on the team and hopefully prevent the other team members

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> from having to deal with those bugs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

on the left, besides the "My Repositories", click the "+" to add a repository
that is already on GitHub.

```{r image-add-repo, echo=FALSE}
insert_graphic("figure/rse-ci/add-repo.png")
```

Then, find your repository in the list and flick the switch button on (so it is
green). You may have to re-sync the list of repositories with GitHub if you
can't find the repository (green "Sync account" button on the left sidebar).

```{r image-list-repos, echo=FALSE}
insert_graphic("figure/rse-ci/list-repos.png")
```

You've now told Travis to watch the repository for any updated commits and run
any commands as needed.

### Configure your project for Travis

Next we need to create a file called `.travis.yml` in the root directory of the
repository. The leading `.` in the name is used by Unix-like systems (Mac OS or
Linux) to hide the file, but on Windows systems it won't be hidden. This file
contains [YAML](glossary.html#yaml) key-value settings that Travis will use and
interpret. A simple template `.travis.yml` configuration file may look like:

```yaml
# Which programming language to use, e.g. Python
language: ... 

# Python specific. Sets the Python version

> python:

Author: Yes it does, but it doesn't matter as much as compared to Python (2 vs 3, etc). In R, it should work for the latest always. Until you get into high production environments like dplyr or ggplot2, then you introduce testing on multiple versions, but usually it is "dev" vs "stable" versions.

are pushed to the GitHub repository, Travis will:

1. Create a new Linux image.
2. Install the desired version of Python.
3. Install the software described in `requirements.txt`.
4. Run the commands in the `script` key, in this case to run `python src/build.py`.
5. Report the results at `https://travis-ci.org/USER/REPO` (USER is your username,
and REPO is the name of the repository).

Travis' summary report tells us whether the build passed or failed. It fails when
it encounters warnings or errors. In the image below, the main thing to look for
is whether the colour is green and says "passed" (as shown), or if the colours 
are red and the message is "failed" or "error".

```{r image-build-overview, echo=FALSE, fig.cap="Travis build overview."}
insert_graphic("figures/rse-ci/build-overview.png")
```

The log below this overview contains a ton of information, most of which are
only relevant when you start needing to debug why and how your software doesn't
build in a clean, non-local environment (aka. not your own computer). We'll get
into more detail about interpreting the logs and overviews later in the chapter.

> ### Display CI build status in README

Author: From what I've seen, we've only used anchors on level 1 and 2 headers, not level 3. If you insist I will, just trying to be consistent.

> ### Display CI build status in README

Reviewer: Ah ok, I have been adding them to all header levels, but that was just my default behavior, I have not reflected over wether it is advantageous or not to adding them only to level 1 or 2 headings.

Is the main reason for the anhors to be able to link from other sections of the book? And then we think level 1 or 2 is precise enough? The ToC for each chapter would be generated from all headers right? Not just the anchored ones?

Travis's dashboard is very useful, but it would also be nice to have a short,
quick display of the Travis build status on our software project's README since
that is where people first go to look for information on the project. To add
this status "badge", click the "build icon" as shown in the top right corner of
Figure ... This will bring up a dialog box where you can select the item
"Markdown" in the "Format" menu list. In the "Result" box will be the markdown
text you can copy and paste into your repository's `README.md` file. It's best to
paste the text right below the first `#` header. Commit and push to GitHub and
your project will now show the "badge" for the Travis CI build, like shown in 
the image below.

TODO: Add ref to image?

```{r image-github-icon, echo=FALSE, fig.cap="The Travis build badge in the README file on GitHub."}

> insert_graphic("figures/rse-ci/github-icon.png")

Author: Hm, I guess I could have used regular markdown for this image. There is no pdf and svg version of this image, so using this code chunk is unnecessary. I'll use Markdown next time or change this during editing if we want to be consistent across chapters.
